# SPECIFIC AIMS
Loss-of-function mutations in ROGDI are causally linked to Kohlschütter-Tönz syndrome (KTS), 
an autosomal-recessive epilepsy disorder characterized by spontaneous seizures, mild to severe 
intellectual impairment, and amelogenesis imperfecta, a loss of the tooth enamel (OMIM #614574)1-5. 

As the function of Rogdi is not known, how the loss of Rogdi results in epilepsy is unclear. 
We recently performed a proteomics-based study to resolve the in vivo molecular composition of the 
inhibitory postsynaptic density (iPSD) in which we identified Rogdi at this site6. 
Moreover, 21% of the iPSD proteome was found to be genetically implicated in autism 
and/or epilepsy disorders in humans. These data suggest that iPSD dysfunction may be 
a common epileptogenic mechanism, and more specifically, that the loss of Rogdi may 
produce deficits in GABAergic inhibition that drives epilepsy in KTS.

Our identification of Rogdi at the iPSD suggests that it may be important for postsynaptic 
GABAergic neurotransmission. CRISPR-mediated tagging of endogenous Rogdi with HA epitope 
tags has confirmed that Rogdi localizes at the inhibitory synapse. 

Additionally, preliminary co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) experiments have confirmed 
that Rogdi interacts with several critically important inhibitory postsynaptic 
proteins including Collybistin. Together, these data support the hypothesis 
that Rogdi functions postsynaptically. However, additional proteomics 
experiments in our lab have also identified Rogdi presynaptically. 
Preliminary bioinformatic analysis and co-IP experiments support this idea by 
demonstrating that Rogdi associates with the presynaptic vesicular machinery and may 
be a component of a known protein complex, the regulator of ATPase of vacuoles 
and endosomes (RAVE) complex. The RAVE complex modulates the function of V-ATPases7,8, a 
proton pumping complex that acidifies the lumen of intracellular organelles. 
V-ATPases function presynaptically in the loading of synaptic vesicles with neurotransmitters9, 
but may also function postsynaptically in receptor trafficking10-15 and endo/exocytosis16,17. 
In summary, Rogdi is a novel synaptic protein whose loss in humans is strongly linked to epilepsy, 
yet it remains unclear whether and how Rogdi functions in synaptic inhibition. 

These preliminary data direct my main hypotheses: (1) Rogdi localizes at inhibitory synapses 
where it may function pre- and/or postsynaptically as a component of the RAVE complex and 
(2) loss of Rogdi causes deficits in synaptic inhibition and is sufficient to cause 
epilepsy in mice. I will test these hypotheses in the following aims: 

# SIGNIFICANCE
Deficits in synaptic inhibition are strongly implicated in human epilepsies 
as mutations in GABA receptor genes are associated with numerous human epilepsy 
disorders and pharmacological blockade of inhibition invariably results in seizures 
or epilepsy19. However, the molecular mechanisms which govern synaptic inhibition 
in health and disease are not well understood. Thus, the proposed work is highly 
significant as it will address fundamental questions regarding the poorly 
understood mechanisms regulating synaptic inhibition, and it will shed light 
on how inhibitory synapse dysfunction may lead to a human epilepsy disorder.

Cortical inhibitory synapses form predominately on the dendritic shaft or soma20. 
This has occluded the biochemical purification of inhibitory synapses. 
Consequently, there was limited knowledge regarding the molecular composition 
of the inhibitory synapse as well as the mechanisms by which disruption of inhibition 
drives brain pathologies. The iPSD proteome6 provides a prospectus for a deeper 
understanding of synaptic physiology that was previously confined to 
the excitatory PSD. Furthermore, these findings provide a rationale for 
interrogating the links between epilepsy and novel inhibitory synapse proteins.

Rogdi, a protein strongly associated with human epilepsy, was one of 
the novel proteins we discovered at the inhibitory postsynapse. Preliminary data discussed 
below direct the hypothesis that Rogdi is the mammalian ortholog of a yeast 
protein of known function, Rav2. 

In yeast, Rav2 functions as part of a three-protein complex, the regulator of 
ATPase of vacuoles and endosomes or RAVE complex which regulates the reversible 
assembly of the V-ATPase and thereby modulates its function. Although V-ATPase 
function and components of the RAVE complex have been established to be 
conserved in mammalian cells, a Rav2 homolog has not been identified. 

I propose that Rogdi is the final missing piece of this tripartite complex 
and aim to test the conservation of the RAVE complex in mammalian neurons. 
Thus, the successful completion of this proposed work will represent a 
fundamental step towards demonstrating the function of Rogdi, a synaptic 
epilepsy candidate protein of unknown function, and the function of the 
RAVE complex, a poorly understood protein complex in mammalian cells. 

# INNOVATION
Conceptual Innovation. While the excitatory postsynapse has been a major focus of molecular 
neuroscience for the last three decades, the proposed work to study a 
novel protein of the inhibitory synapse is conceptually innovative and 
is expected to shed light on mechanisms of synaptic inhibition
and potential disease etiology.  

The realization that the iPSD is more complex than previously appreciated 
and is a locus of disease burden emphasizes the fundamental importance of an 
understanding of synaptic inhibition. Genomic studies are rapidly accumulating 
evidence implicating various genes in epilepsy disorders21,22. 
Although the field of epilepsy has focused on the role of GABAergic deficits in the
pathogenesis of epilepsy, little beyond the role of GABA receptors and ion 
channels in producing these deficits is known. To begin to address these questions, 
I will utilize a new conditional Rogdi KO mouse in combination with a conceptually 
innovative optogenetics approach to dissect the potential role of Rogdi 
inhibitory pre- and postsynaptic function.

Technical Innovation. Herein I proposed to use homology-independent targeted integration (HITI), a technically innovative CRISPR-Cas9 based genome editing approach that enables the labeling of endogenous proteins74. HITI does not rely upon protein-specific antibodies and thereby overcomes several limitations of antibodies such as unsuspected cross-reactivity to other proteins and insufficient application-specific validation23-25. Our preliminary data demonstrate the feasibility of this approach as we have employed HITI to tag and visualize a growing number of proteins in vitro and in vivo.  

Combining CRISPR based gene editing approaches with super-resolution microscopy techniques such as stimulated emission depletion microscopy or STED is technically innovative and enables the high acuity resolution of endogenous cellular structures. The resolution of confocal microscopy is limited by the diffraction limit of light and thus has a lateral resolution of ~200 nm26. As the pre- and postsynapse are separated by only ~20 nm27, confocal microscopy cannot accurately resolve these structures. Thus, super-resolution techniques such as STED are required. Here, I propose to use HITI and STED microscopy to analyze the localization of endogenous Rogdi. This approach is technically superior to more commonly employed approaches utilizing overexpression and/or confocal microscopy as it does not rely upon protein overexpression and has the optical resolution to precisely resolve synaptic structures. 

I will also utilize the technically innovative HITI approach to determine whether Rogdi associates with endogenous RAVE complex proteins. In the absence of validated antibodies for a protein of interest, HITI enables the tagging of endogenous genes and thereby avoids the confounds of protein overexpression, but also overcomes limitations inherent with working with large genes whose coding sequences may be prohibitively large for overexpression.

# APPROACH

In this application, I will focus on Rogdi, a protein of unknown function whose gene is strongly linked to a human epilepsy disorder, Kohlschütter-Tönz syndrome. In situ hybridization28, mouse brain proteomics29, and single-cell RNA-seq30,31 indicate that Rogdi is highly expressed in the mouse hippocampus-putatively in the dentate gyrus and CA1 regions. This expression pattern is consistent with the potential role of Rogdi in regulating hippocampal excitability and may be pertinent to the seizures and intellectual impairments observed in KTS individuals. I have therefore chosen to focus on the hippocampus as a model system throughout this proposal.
To ensure robust and unbiased analyses, all data will be collected blind to condition/genotype and both sexes will be included throughout the experimental design.

Aim 1. Examining molecular links between Rogdi and the inhibitory synapse. 

Rogdi localizes to inhibitory synapses. I hypothesize that (1) Rogdi localizes at inhibitory synapses and (2) is a component of the RAVE complex. Rogdi was identified in the Collybistin iBioID proteome. Subsequently, we have confirmed that Rogdi can complex with InSyn1 and Collybistin, key protein components of the iPSD (Fig.1a). Our preliminary data demonstrate that endogenous Rogdi localizes at inhibitory synapses in vitro (Fig.1b).  In agreement with this, a recent study observed punctate, endogenous Rogdi immunofluorescence in the dendrites of cultured neurons; a staining pattern indicative of a postsynaptic localization32. However, the same authors also found that overexpression of GFP-tagged Rogdi colocalized with presynaptic markers in axons of mature cultured hippocampal neurons. Thus, it remains unclear if Rogdi resides and functions presynaptically, postsynaptically, or at both locations. To address this question, I will first investigate the localization of endogenous Rogdi using HITI and STED. 

Rogdi is a component of the RAVE complex. Evidence also supports the hypothesis that Rogdi is a component of the RAVE complex. Querying databases for known protein domains in Rogdi revealed a leucine zipper domain (PF10259) that is found in Rogdi proteins across numerous species, including the Rav2 protein in yeast. Alignment of Rogdi's recently determined crystal structure33 with the predicted structure of yeast Rav2 using Phyre234 suggests a strikingly similar overall domain organization and tertiary structure (Fig.2a). In yeast, Rav2 is a component of a three-protein complex, the RAVE complex7,8 composed of Rav1, Rav2, and Skp1p35. The RAVE complex associates with and coordinates the assembly of V-ATPases in the plasma membrane of cellular organelles. Loss of the core RAVE scaffolding protein, Rav1 or its binding partner Rav2 impairs V-ATPase function in yeast7,35,36. In humans, Rav1 is encoded by the orthologous DMXL1, DMXL2, and WDR7 genes. AP-MS proteomics studies have identified Rogdi in complex with Dmxl237 and a V-ATPase subunit38, supporting the existence of a mammalian RAVE complex composed of Dmxl1/2, Wdr7, and Rogdi. 

Finally, loss of ROGDI in KTS causes amylogenesis imperfecta (AI; loss of tooth enamel) and epilepsy. The V-ATPase a3 subunit is expressed in ameloblasts, a cell type that is responsible for the formation of the tooth enamel. Loss of the V-ATPase a3 gene results in AI in mice39. If Rogdi acts as Rav2 in facilitating the assembly of the V-ATPase complex, loss of Rogdi could be expected to compromise V-ATPase function, and this may be the underlying mechanism by which AI occurs in KTS. Furthermore, in humans de novo mutations in ATP6V1A were identified in patients with developmental encephalopathy and epilepsy40. Thus, a loss of V-ATPase function caused by a loss of ROGDI may underly two hallmark features of KTS-AI and epilepsy.  

Despite the apparent conservation of the RAVE complex function from yeast to humans, no homolog of the Rav2 gene has been identified in mammals. The above evidence provides preliminary support for my hypothesis that Rogdi represents the mammalian ortholog of Rav2. 

Aim 1. Research design. The proposed research relies upon CRISPR-Cas9 to knock-in epitope tags to the endogenous mouse Rogdi, Dmxl1, Dmxl2, and Wdr7 loci. We have modified an AAV virus to direct expression of CRISPR guide RNAs (AAV-U6-gRNA). Transduction of neurons derived from a Cas9 (H11-Cas9; Jax #028239) knock-in mouse41, or delivery of this virus in vivo, induces the CRISPR-mediated cutting of genomic or foreign DNA42.  

SubAim1a: Determining the localization of Rogdi. To visualize the endogenous localization of Rogdi, I will employ HITI (see innovation) to insert DNA encoding  HA epitope tags (spaghetti monster HA, smHA43) into the last coding exon of Rogdi. This technique utilizes endogenous Rogdi expression and overcomes a major concern with recombinant protein overexpression-that overexpression may result in aberrant protein localization. I chose to target the C-terminus of Rogdi because (1) our preliminary data demonstrate that C-terminally tagged Rogdi is stably expressed in cultured cells. Furthermore, (2) work in yeast demonstrates that a C-terminally tagged Rav2 transgene can functionally replace the endogenous Rav2 gene36. Cultured neurons will be prepared from the hippocampi of post-natal day 0 (P0) H11-Cas9 mice, and AAV virus will be added to direct cutting of the Rogdi genomic DNA (AAV-Rogdi-gRNA), and a viral donor vector (AAV-HITI-smHA) that will direct homology-independent insertion of smHA (Fig.1b). Neurons will be cultured according to standard procedures and fixed on day in vitro (DIV)15. Endogenous Rogdi will then be visualized by immunostaining with a high-affinity HA antibody (Rat monoclonal 3F10). The synaptic localization of Rogdi will be interrogated by co-staining for the presynaptic marker Synapsin (Synaptic Systems; 106104) and excitatory or inhibitory post-synaptic markers Homer or GABAAR?2 (Synaptic Systems; 106002 and 224003), respectively. We have demonstrated the feasibility of this approach in preliminary experiments in which the presynaptic protein Synaptophysin was tagged with HA using HITI and visualized using STED (Fig.3a). Expected outcomes: I expect to identify the endogenous localization of Rogdi. I predict that Rogdi will localize at inhibitory synapses (identified by GABAAR?2 staining). Using STED, I will be able to determine whether Rogdi localizes at the presynapse (colocalizes with Synapsin) or postsynapse (colocalize with GABAAR?2) or may localize at both locations. If Rogdi localizes at the inhibitory synapse, a loss of Rogdi may impair inhibitory synapse function. Therefore, I will test this hypothesis in my second aim by interrogating specific measures of pre- and postsynaptic function. Potential issues and solutions: The work in this aim will be conducted with the expert guidance of Dr. Lisa Cameron in the Duke Light Microscopy Core Facility (see letter of support). Our preliminary data support the feasibility of this approach, however visualizing low abundance, endogenous proteins is challenging. One alternative approach is to use proximity ligation assay (PLA) as a means of enhancing the signal44. One concern with any CRISPR approach is potential off-target cutting that could introduce HITI epitope tags into unintended genomic sites. We minimize this potential by selecting guide RNAs with minimal off-targets using CRISPOR45. Additionally, each cell event is independent-thus we will note non-consensus labeling if observed. Using a commercial antibody against Rogdi is another alternative, however, we have yet to validate these antibodies.

SubAim1b: Demonstrating that Rogdi interacts with mammalian RAVE complex proteins. I will determine whether Rogdi associates with the mammalian RAVE complex proteins Dmxl1, Dmxl2, and Wdr7 by HITI tagging these genes with Myc-epitope tags and immunoprecipitating these proteins and their associated complexes from mouse brain tissue. P0 H11-Cas9 mice will be co-injected with gene-specific AAV CRISPR guide RNA viruses targeting Dmxl1, Dmxl2, and Wdr7 and a universal HITI Myc donor vector. After 28 days, these mice will be sacrificed, their brains processed for co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP), and finally the presence of Rogdi in the Myc-immunoprecipitated complexes will be determined by immunoblotting using one of three commercially available antibodies against Rogdi. Preliminary testing of these three antibodies demonstrates that they can detect the recombinant Rogdi protein and detect a major band of the correct size by western blot of whole brain lysate. Here the HITI approach is necessitated by the large size of Dmxl1/2 (336-338 kDa) which occludes the possibility of overexpressing these proteins. Moreover, available antibodies for Rogdi, Dmxl1/2, and Wdr7 have all been produced in rabbit, confounding the simultaneous immunodetection of these proteins using available antibodies. Thus, HITI will enable me to address a question which is otherwise extremely difficult. 

Expected outcomes: I expect to determine whether Rogdi associates with Dmxl1, Dmxl2, and Wdr7 in vivo. Several AP-proteomics studies have provided initial evidence that the RAVE complex in mammalian cells consists of Dmxl1/2 and Wdr7. These studies have also identified Rogdi. I will address the potential synaptic deficits associated with loss of Rogdi in my second aim. Potential issues and solutions: I will immunoprecipitate Dmxl1/2 and Wdr7 and probe for Rogdi by western blotting. The feasibility of this approach has been demonstrated by recent work in our lab in which endogenous, Myc-tagged Carmil3 was immunoprecipitated from mouse brain. Western blotting of the immunoprecipitate confirmed the association of Carmil3 with Wrp and actin Capping Protein (Fig.3b)76. An alternative to using the Myc tag may be to use the Halo tag system. HITI can be used to tag the Dmxl1/2 and Wdr7 genes with the Halo tag protein. As the Halo protein forms a covalent bond with its chemical ligand, this approach is well suited for immunoprecipitation of low abundance proteins46. Dr. Michael Tadross, an expert in the engineering of the Halo tag system, will be an excellent resource if this approach is required (see letter of reference). Another alternative approach is to immunoprecipitate V-ATPase subunits and probe for Rogdi. As yeast Rav2 binds five of the eight V1 V-ATPase subunits (Fig.2b) (Saccharomyces Genome Database47, SGD:S000002610), Rogdi is expected to co-IP with V1 complex proteins. Our preliminary data indicate that Rogdi associates with two V1 V-ATPase proteins, demonstrating the potential for Rogdi to associate with the V-ATPase complex in mouse brain (Fig.2c). Yet a final alternative approach may be to use iBioID and proteomics to analyze the Rogdi interactome. Our lab has extensive experience performing proteomics using this approach6,48,49,76.


Aim 2. Characterizing the role of Rogdi in GABAergic synaptic transmission and epilepsy.

Deficits in GABAergic inhibition cause epilepsy.
 I hypothesize that loss of Rogdi produces deficits in synaptic inhibition and spontaneous seizures. Genetic50-54, pharmacological55, anatomical56-62, and electrophysiological63-65 evidence all demonstrate that the loss of GABAergic inhibition is a critical aspect of the pathology of epilepsy, yet the molecular mechanisms which govern synaptic inhibition in health and disease are still not clear. Our novel Rogdi mouse represents an opportunity to study the pre- and postsynaptic mechanisms of synaptic inhibition.

Loss of Rogdi may cause deficits in synaptic inhibition. Genetic mutations that underlie human epilepsies provide unique opportunities to understand the molecular mechanisms that drive seizure susceptibility, as the underlying mechanism of epileptogenesis can be traced to dysregulation of a single gene. Homozygous loss-of-function mutations in ROGDI cause KTS1-3,5,66,67. We identified Rogdi at the iPSD, therefore I hypothesize that loss of Rogdi causes deficits in synaptic inhibition which may drive the KTS epilepsy phenotype.  In support of Rogdi's role in GABAergic neurotransmission, a recent study in Drosophila found that Rogdi is required in GABAergic neurons for normal sleep68. To assess the role of Rogdi in GABAergic neurotransmission I will perform whole-cell patch clamp electrophysiology of Rogdi KO neurons receiving input from WT neurons (postsynaptic effects) and in WT neurons that receive input from Rogdi KO GABAergic neurons (presynaptic effects). The cell-type specificity of Rogdi knockout will be controlled with cell-type selective AAVs and mouse Cre-genetics-restricting the KO of Rogdi to excitatory or inhibitory neurons. To assess the role of Rogdi in epilepsy and seizure susceptibility I will monitor Rogdi conventional KO mice for seizures.

Aim 2. Research Design. The goal of this aim is to evaluate the function of Rogdi in pre- and postsynaptic GABAergic inhibition and to determine if the loss of Rogdi is sufficient to cause seizures. It relies upon a novel conditional KO mouse that we have developed (Fig.4). This mouse has LoxP sites inserted into introns three and five. Cre recombinase induces excision of the fourth and fifth exons and results in a premature stop codon in exon six. As nonsense mutations throughout the ROGDI gene cause KTS, including nonsense mutations in exons 6 and 7 that result in truncation of the Rogdi protein1,5, the Rogdi floxed allele is predicted to result in complete loss-of-function after Cre recombination. We recently obtained germline transmission of the Rogdi floxed allele (Fig.4c). 

SubAim 2a: Evaluating the role of Rogdi in postsynaptic function. Loss of Rogdi may result in neuronal hyperexcitability if it functions postsynaptically at inhibitory synapses on excitatory neurons. I will assess the cell-autonomous, postsynaptic function of Rogdi in excitatory neurons using my conditional Rogdi KO mouse and cell-type selective AAVs (see overview of approach in Fig.5a). Neurons will be cultured from Rogdif/f:Ai14 mice. The Ai14 mouse expresses tdTomato in a Cre-dependent manner and will provide a reliable marker for KO cells69. On DIV10, dilute AAV-CamkIIa-Cre virus will be added to induce sparse KO of Rogdi in excitatory neurons. Patching onto KO (tdTomato+) cells, which receive predominantly WT inputs, can be used to evaluate the postsynaptic function of Rogdi. Because KO is sparse, WT (tdTomato-) cells within the same coverslip can be used as a negative control.  Whole cell patch clamp of pharmacologically isolated miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSC) and AMPA-mediated miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (AMPA-mEPSCs) will be performed on DIV16 according to standard procedures. Expected outcomes: I expect that the analysis of isolated mIPSC frequency and amplitude in Rogdi KO neurons, compared to control neurons, will reveal the select role of Rogdi in GABAergic inhibition. Perturbations in amplitude may reflect altered levels of postsynaptic GABAA receptors, while changes in the mIPSC frequency may reflect an altered number of postsynaptic sites. These results will represent a significant step forward in understanding the mechanistic basis by which human ROGDI loss-of-function mutations result in increased seizure susceptibility. Analysis of mEPSCs will determine whether effects are specific to inhibitory synapses or whether loss of Rogdi also alters synaptic excitation. Potential issues and solutions: If Rogdi functions postsynaptically in GABAergic neurons, the global balance of excitation and inhibition may also be perturbed if loss of Rogdi results in an increase in inhibition onto interneurons that provide input to excitatory neurons. However, such a gain-of-function seems unlikely. To evaluate the postsynaptic role of Rogdi in GABAergic neurons, the approach described below in Aim2b could be modified by patching onto Rogdf/f:Gad2-Cre+ neurons. Our lab has established the electrophysiology protocols required in this aim, but an alternative approach to achieve sparse postsynaptic knockout of Rogdi in excitatory neurons may be to use biolistic transfection of hippocampal slice cultures, as we have previous published6.  Rogdi may function in early synaptic development, here an attempt to avoid this confound is made by adding Cre after the majority of synaptic development in culture. However, if no effect is observed by addition of Cre on DIV10, I will explore adding Cre earlier (e.g. on DIV0) in an attempt to identify the developmental window in which Rogdi is required. Expert help in the execution of the electrophysiology experiments will be obtained from members in my lab who have extensive experience performing electrophysiology as well as my committee member Dr. Nicole Calakos, who is an expert in electrophysiology (see letter of support). 

SubAim 2b: Evaluating the role of Rogdi in presynaptic function. If Rogdi functions presynaptically at inhibitory synapses, its loss may result in a decrease in inhibitory output onto excitatory cells. To evaluate the presynaptic function of Rogdi in GABAergic neurons, neurons from Rogdif/f:Gad2-Cre+ mice will be sparsely seeded into Rogdif/f:Cre- (WT) neuronal cultures at the time of plating (for overview of approach see Fig.5b). The Gad2-Cre mouse expresses Cre broadly in interneurons of the cortex and hippocampus and will restrict KO of Rogdi to these cells70. On DIV10, Cre-dependent channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2; AAV-DIO-ChR2-mCherry) virus will be added for expression of ChR2-mCherry in Gad2+ interneurons. As a control, cultures from Rogdif/f:Gad2-Cre- littermates will be transduced with AAV-mDlx-ChR2-mCherry71 for optical control of WT interneurons. In this way, optically evoked measures of presynaptic function can be obtained by patching onto WT (dark) neurons that are nearby inhibitory KO (Rogdif/f:Gad2-Cre+) neurons. Short term plasticity as well as additional presynaptic parameters such as release probability, size of the readily releasable pool (RRP), and vesicle replenishment rate can be calculated by fitting the cumulative evoked current response to 20Hz optical stimulation. As proof-of-concept we have evaluated the deficits in presynaptic function associated with presynaptic loss of Arpc3, a major regulator of the cytoskeleton (Fig.6). Presynaptic loss of Arpc3 results in alterations in short term synaptic plasticity, in conjunction with changes in release probability and synaptic vesicle replenishment rate (Fig.6c-e). Expected outcomes: In neurons, the V-ATPase establishes a proton driving force for the loading of synaptic vesicles with neurotransmitters72,73. If Rogdi is a component of the RAVE complex, V-ATPase function is expected to be impaired, and this may produce deficits in the loading of synaptic vesicle (SVs) with GABA at inhibitory synapses. Moreover, as fully acidified SVs exhibit greater release probability74, loss of Rogdi may affect the size of the RRP and/or vesicle replenishment rate. Potential issues and solutions: Our lab has established the electrophysiology protocols required in this aim using sparse seeding of floxed allele neurons into WT cultures and recording of optically evoked responses in WT neurons (see Fig.6). We will extend this approach to measure evoked inhibitory currents. An imbalance in excitation and inhibition may also result from an increase in glutamatergic neurotransmission caused by a gain-of-function at the excitatory presynapse. In order to evaluate the presynaptic function of Rogdi at excitatory synapses, we may modify the approach in Aim2a to knockout Rogdi in executory neurons and record evoked currents in WT cells (e.g. Fig.6). Rogdi may be required for early presynaptic development. Temporal control of Rogdi KO may be achieved by addition of Cre after the majority of synaptic development in vitro. However, this approach would sacrifice the spatial precision of the proposed sparse knockout approach. Another alternative may be to utilize hippocampal cultures from Gad2-CreER (Jax #010702) mice treated with low doses of 4-hydroxy tamoxifen to achieve sparse KO.

SubAim 2c: Role of Rogdi in seizures. Individuals with homozygous loss of ROGDI suffer from spontaneous recurrent seizures beginning early in life. The mean onset of epilepsy in individuals with KTS is approximately 6 months. I will cross our Rogdif/f mouse to CMV-Cre mice to create a constitutive Rogdi KO mouse. This model will most closely recapitulate the human genetics of KTS. Rogdi+/- (Heterozygote), Rogdi+/+ (WT), and Rogdi-/- (KO) mice will be monitored daily by video recording for behavioral seizures in the month following birth. Expected outcomes: As homozygous loss of ROGDI causes seizures in human's I predict that homozygous loss of Rogdi in mice will be sufficient to produce seizures. I also expect to identify AI in these mice. Potential issues and solutions: Work associated with this aim will be done in close collaboration with Dr. James McNamara (see letter of support), an expert in the study of the molecular mechanisms of epileptogenesis. One possible confound is the mice will not develop de novo seizures but may instead have an elevated propensity to develop seizures. Video-EEG recordings may be made to quantify epileptic brain activity, and altered seizure threshold may be determined by comparing the current required to induce focal electrographic seizures in Rogdi+/- and Rogdi-/- mice75.

In conclusion, the combined results from Aims 1 and 2 can be expected to uncover the function of Rogdi at inhibitory synapses. This will increase our knowledge of how inhibitory synapses work and mechanisms of how their dysfunction leads to epilepsy. If time allows other phenotypes in the Rogdi KO mice can be evaluated, including histological analysis of tooth enamel relevant to AI. These studies may further inform the potential role of Rogdi as a component of the RAVE complex.

# BIBLIOGRAPHY
1. 	Aswath N, Ramakrishnan SN, Teresa N, Ramanathan A. A novel ROGDI gene mutation is associated with Kohlschutter-Tonz syndrome. Oral Surg Oral Med Oral Pathol Oral Radiol. 2018 Jan;125(1):e8-e11. PMID: 29153277
2. 	Tucci A, Kara E, Schossig A, Wolf NI, Plagnol V, Fawcett K, Paisán-Ruiz C, Moore M, Hernandez D, Musumeci S, Tennison M, Hennekam R, Palmeri S, Malandrini A, Raskin S, Donnai D, Hennig C, Tzschach A, Hordijk R, Bast T, Wimmer K, Lo C-N, Shorvon S, Mefford H, Eichler EE, Hall R, Hayes I, Hardy J, Singleton A, Zschocke J, Houlden H. Kohlschütter-Tönz syndrome: mutations in ROGDI and evidence of genetic heterogeneity. Hum Mutat. 2013 Feb;34(2):296-300. PMCID: PMC3902979
3. 	Huckert M, Mecili H, Laugel-Haushalter V, Stoetzel C, Muller J, Flori E, Laugel V, Manière M-C, Dollfus H, Bloch-Zupan A. A Novel Mutation in the ROGDI Gene in a Patient with Kohlschütter-Tönz Syndrome. Mol Syndromol. 2014 Dec;5(6):293-298. PMCID: PMC4281576
4. 	Schossig A, Wolf NI, Kapferer I, Kohlschütter A, Zschocke J. Epileptic encephalopathy and amelogenesis imperfecta: Kohlschütter-Tönz syndrome. Eur J Med Genet. 2012 May;55(5):319-322. PMID: 22522085
5. 	Mory A, Dagan E, Illi B, Duquesnoy P, Mordechai S, Shahor I, Romani S, Hawash-Moustafa N, Mandel H, Valente EM, Amselem S, Gershoni-Baruch R. A nonsense mutation in the human homolog of Drosophila rogdi causes Kohlschutter-Tonz syndrome. Am J Hum Genet. 2012 Apr 6;90(4):708-714. PMCID: PMC3322231
6. 	Uezu A, Kanak DJ, Bradshaw TWA, Soderblom EJ, Catavero CM, Burette AC, Weinberg RJ, Soderling SH. Identification of an elaborate complex mediating postsynaptic inhibition. Science. 2016 Sep 9;353(6304):1123-1129. PMCID: PMC5432043
7. 	Smardon AM, Diab HI, Tarsio M, Diakov TT, Nasab ND, West RW, Kane PM. The RAVE complex is an isoform-specific V-ATPase assembly factor in yeast. Mol Biol Cell. 2014 Feb;25(3):356-367. PMCID: PMC3907276
8. 	Smardon AM, Tarsio M, Kane PM. The RAVE complex is essential for stable assembly of the yeast V-ATPase. J Biol Chem. 2002 Apr 19;277(16):13831-13839. PMID: 11844802
9. 	Hnasko TS, Edwards RH. Neurotransmitter corelease: mechanism and physiological role. Annu Rev Physiol. 2012;74:225-243. PMCID: PMC4090038
10. 	Yan Y, Denef N, Schüpbach T. The vacuolar proton pump, V-ATPase, is required for notch signaling and endosomal trafficking in Drosophila. Dev Cell. 2009 Sep;17(3):387-402. PMCID: PMC2758249
11. 	Marshansky V, Futai M. The V-type H+-ATPase in vesicular trafficking: targeting, regulation and function. Curr Opin Cell Biol. 2008 Aug;20(4):415-426. PMID: 18511251
12. 	Hurtado-Lorenzo A, Skinner M, El Annan J, Futai M, Sun-Wada G-H, Bourgoin S, Casanova J, Wildeman A, Bechoua S, Ausiello DA, Brown D, Marshansky V. V-ATPase interacts with ARNO and Arf6 in early endosomes and regulates the protein degradative pathway. Nat Cell Biol. 2006 Feb;8(2):124-136. PMID: 16415858
13. 	Marshansky V, Rubinstein JL, Grüber G. Eukaryotic V-ATPase: novel structural findings and functional insights. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2014 Jun;1837(6):857-879. PMID: 24508215
14. 	Hosokawa H, Dip PV, Merkulova M, Bakulina A, Zhuang Z, Khatri A, Jian X, Keating SM, Bueler SA, Rubinstein JL, Randazzo PA, Ausiello DA, Grüber G, Marshansky V. The N termini of a-subunit isoforms are involved in signaling between vacuolar H+-ATPase (V-ATPase) and cytohesin-2. J Biol Chem. 2013 Feb 22;288(8):5896-5913. PMCID: PMC3581410
15. 	Merkulova M, Bakulina A, Thaker YR, Grüber G, Marshansky V. Specific motifs of the V-ATPase a2-subunit isoform interact with catalytic and regulatory domains of ARNO. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2010 Aug;1797(8):1398-1409. PMID: 20153292
16. 	Di Giovanni J, Boudkkazi S, Mochida S, Bialowas A, Samari N, Lévêque C, Youssouf F, Brechet A, Iborra C, Maulet Y, Moutot N, Debanne D, Seagar M, El Far O. V-ATPase membrane sector associates with synaptobrevin to modulate neurotransmitter release. Neuron. 2010 Jul 29;67(2):268-279. PMID: 20670834
17. 	Hiesinger PR, Fayyazuddin A, Mehta SQ, Rosenmund T, Schulze KL, Zhai RG, Verstreken P, Cao Y, Zhou Y, Kunz J, Bellen HJ. The v-ATPase V0 subunit a1 is required for a late step in synaptic vesicle exocytosis in Drosophila. Cell. 2005 May 20;121(4):607-620. PMCID: PMC3351201
18. 	Suzuki K, Tsunekawa Y, Hernandez-Benitez R, Wu J, Zhu J, Kim EJ, Hatanaka F, Yamamoto M, Araoka T, Li Z, Kurita M, Hishida T, Li M, Aizawa E, Guo S, Chen S, Goebl A, Soligalla RD, Qu J, Jiang T, Fu X, Jafari M, Esteban CR, Berggren WT, Lajara J, Nuñez-Delicado E, Guillen P, Campistol JM, Matsuzaki F, Liu G-H, Magistretti P, Zhang K, Callaway EM, Zhang K, Belmonte JCI. In vivo genome editing via CRISPR/Cas9 mediated homology-independent targeted integration. Nature. 2016 Dec 1;540(7631):144-149. PMCID: PMC5331785
19. 	Treiman DM. GABAergic mechanisms in epilepsy. Epilepsia. 2001;42 Suppl 3:8-12. PMID: 11520315
20. 	Kubota Y, Karube F, Nomura M, Kawaguchi Y. The diversity of cortical inhibitory synapses. Front Neural Circuits. 2016 Apr 25;10:27. PMCID: PMC4842771
21. 	Noebels J. Pathway-driven discovery of epilepsy genes. Nat Neurosci. 2015 Mar;18(3):344-350. PMCID: PMC4852130
22. 	Myers CT, Mefford HC. Advancing epilepsy genetics in the genomic era. Genome Med. 2015 Aug 25;7:91. PMCID: PMC4549122
23. 	Berglund L, Björling E, Oksvold P, Fagerberg L, Asplund A, Szigyarto CA-K, Persson A, Ottosson J, Wernérus H, Nilsson P, Lundberg E, Sivertsson A, Navani S, Wester K, Kampf C, Hober S, Pontén F, Uhlén M. A genecentric Human Protein Atlas for expression profiles based on antibodies. Mol Cell Proteomics. 2008 Oct;7(10):2019-2027. PMID: 18669619
24. 	Egelhofer TA, Minoda A, Klugman S, Lee K, Kolasinska-Zwierz P, Alekseyenko AA, Cheung M-S, Day DS, Gadel S, Gorchakov AA, Gu T, Kharchenko PV, Kuan S, Latorre I, Linder-Basso D, Luu Y, Ngo Q, Perry M, Rechtsteiner A, Riddle NC, Schwartz YB, Shanower GA, Vielle A, Ahringer J, Elgin SCR, Kuroda MI, Pirrotta V, Ren B, Strome S, Park PJ, Karpen GH, Hawkins RD, Lieb JD. An assessment of histone-modification antibody quality. Nat Struct Mol Biol. 2011 Jan;18(1):91-93. PMCID: PMC3017233
25. 	Uhlen M, Bandrowski A, Carr S, Edwards A, Ellenberg J, Lundberg E, Rimm DL, Rodriguez H, Hiltke T, Snyder M, Yamamoto T. A proposal for validation of antibodies. Nat Methods. 2016 Sep 5;13(10):823-827. PMID: 27595404
26. 	Combs CA. Fluorescence microscopy: a concise guide to current imaging methods. Curr Protoc Neurosci. 2010 Jan;Chapter 2:Unit2.1. PMCID: PMC3805368
27. 	Dani A, Huang B, Bergan J, Dulac C, Zhuang X. Superresolution imaging of chemical synapses in the brain. Neuron. 2010 Dec 9;68(5):843-856. PMCID: PMC3057101
28. 	Sunkin SM, Ng L, Lau C, Dolbeare T, Gilbert TL, Thompson CL, Hawrylycz M, Dang C. Allen Brain Atlas: an integrated spatio-temporal portal for exploring the central nervous system. Nucleic Acids Res. 2013 Jan;41(Database issue):D996-D1008. PMCID: PMC3531093
29. 	Sharma K, Schmitt S, Bergner CG, Tyanova S, Kannaiyan N, Manrique-Hoyos N, Kongi K, Cantuti L, Hanisch U-K, Philips M-A, Rossner MJ, Mann M, Simons M. Cell type- and brain region-resolved mouse brain proteome. Nat Neurosci. 2015 Dec;18(12):1819-1831. PMID: 26523646
30. 	Cembrowski MS, Wang L, Sugino K, Shields BC, Spruston N. Hipposeq: a comprehensive RNA-seq database of gene expression in hippocampal principal neurons. elife. 2016 Apr 26;5:e14997. PMCID: PMC4846374
31. 	Zeisel A, Muñoz-Manchado AB, Codeluppi S, Lönnerberg P, La Manno G, Juréus A, Marques S, Munguba H, He L, Betsholtz C, Rolny C, Castelo-Branco G, Hjerling-Leffler J, Linnarsson S. Brain structure. Cell types in the mouse cortex and hippocampus revealed by single-cell RNA-seq. Science. 2015 Mar 6;347(6226):1138-1142. PMID: 25700174
32. 	Riemann D, Wallrafen R, Dresbach T. The Kohlschütter-Tönz syndrome associated gene Rogdi encodes a novel presynaptic protein. Sci Rep. 2017 Nov 17;7(1):15791. PMCID: PMC5693994
33. 	Lee H, Jeong H, Choe J, Jun Y, Lim C, Lee C. The crystal structure of human Rogdi provides insight into the causes of Kohlschutter-Tönz Syndrome. Sci Rep. 2017 Jun 21;7(1):3972. PMCID: PMC5479863
34. 	Kelley LA, Mezulis S, Yates CM, Wass MN, Sternberg MJE. The Phyre2 web portal for protein modeling, prediction and analysis. Nat Protoc. 2015 Jun;10(6):845-858. PMCID: PMC5298202
35. 	Seol JH, Shevchenko A, Shevchenko A, Deshaies RJ. Skp1 forms multiple protein complexes, including RAVE, a regulator of V-ATPase assembly. Nat Cell Biol. 2001 Apr;3(4):384-391. PMID: 11283612
36. 	Smardon AM, Nasab ND, Tarsio M, Diakov TT, Kane PM. Molecular Interactions and Cellular Itinerary of the Yeast RAVE (Regulator of the H+-ATPase of Vacuolar and Endosomal Membranes) Complex. J Biol Chem. 2015 Nov 13;290(46):27511-27523. PMCID: PMC4646003
37. 	Li KW, Chen N, Klemmer P, Koopmans F, Karupothula R, Smit AB. Identifying true protein complex constituents in interaction proteomics: the example of the DMXL2 protein complex. Proteomics. 2012 Aug;12(15-16):2428-2432. PMID: 22707207
38. 	Merkulova M, Paunescu TG, Azroyan A, Marshansky V, Breton S, Brown D. Mapping the H(+) (V)-ATPase interactome: identification of proteins involved in trafficking, folding, assembly and phosphorylation. Sci Rep. 2015 Oct 7;5:14827. PMCID: PMC4595830
39. 	Johnson L, Ganss B, Wang A, Zirngibl RA, Johnson DE, Owen C, Bradley G, Voronov I. V-ATPases Containing a3 Subunit Play a Direct Role in Enamel Development in Mice. J Cell Biochem. 2017 May 3;118(10):3328-3340. PMID: 28295540
40. 	Fassio A, Esposito A, Kato M, Saitsu H, Mei D, Marini C, Conti V, Nakashima M, Okamoto N, Olmez Turker A, Albuz B, Semerci Gündüz CN, Yanagihara K, Belmonte E, Maragliano L, Ramsey K, Balak C, Siniard A, Narayanan V, C4RCD Research Group, Ohba C, Shiina M, Ogata K, Matsumoto N, Benfenati F, Guerrini R. De novo mutations of the ATP6V1A gene cause developmental encephalopathy with epilepsy. Brain. 2018 Jun 1;141(6):1703-1718. PMCID: PMC5972584
41. 	Chiou S-H, Winters IP, Wang J, Naranjo S, Dudgeon C, Tamburini FB, Brady JJ, Yang D, Grüner BM, Chuang C-H, Caswell DR, Zeng H, Chu P, Kim GE, Carpizo DR, Kim SK, Winslow MM. Pancreatic cancer modeling using retrograde viral vector delivery and in vivo CRISPR/Cas9-mediated somatic genome editing. Genes Dev. 2015 Jul 15;29(14):1576-1585. PMCID: PMC4526740
42. 	Platt RJ, Chen S, Zhou Y, Yim MJ, Swiech L, Kempton HR, Dahlman JE, Parnas O, Eisenhaure TM, Jovanovic M, Graham DB, Jhunjhunwala S, Heidenreich M, Xavier RJ, Langer R, Anderson DG, Hacohen N, Regev A, Feng G, Sharp PA, Zhang F. CRISPR-Cas9 knockin mice for genome editing and cancer modeling. Cell. 2014 Oct 9;159(2):440-455. PMCID: PMC4265475
43. 	Viswanathan S, Williams ME, Bloss EB, Stasevich TJ, Speer CM, Nern A, Pfeiffer BD, Hooks BM, Li W-P, English BP, Tian T, Henry GL, Macklin JJ, Patel R, Gerfen CR, Zhuang X, Wang Y, Rubin GM, Looger LL. High-performance probes for light and electron microscopy. Nat Methods. 2015 Jun;12(6):568-576. PMCID: PMC4573404
44. 	Greenwood C, Ruff D, Kirvell S, Johnson G, Dhillon HS, Bustin SA. Proximity assays for sensitive quantification of proteins. Biomolecular Detection and Quantification. 2015 Jun;4:10-16. PMCID: PMC4822221
45. 	Haeussler M, Schönig K, Eckert H, Eschstruth A, Mianné J, Renaud J-B, Schneider-Maunoury S, Shkumatava A, Teboul L, Kent J, Joly J-S, Concordet J-P. Evaluation of off-target and on-target scoring algorithms and integration into the guide RNA selection tool CRISPOR. Genome Biol. 2016 Jul 5;17(1):148. PMCID: PMC4934014
46. 	Michielsen ECHJ, Diris JHC, Hackeng CM, Wodzig WKWH, Van Dieijen-Visser MP. Highly sensitive immunoprecipitation method for extracting and concentrating low-abundance proteins from human serum. Clin Chem. 2005 Jan;51(1):222-224. PMID: 15613717
47. 	Cherry JM, Hong EL, Amundsen C, Balakrishnan R, Binkley G, Chan ET, Christie KR, Costanzo MC, Dwight SS, Engel SR, Fisk DG, Hirschman JE, Hitz BC, Karra K, Krieger CJ, Miyasato SR, Nash RS, Park J, Skrzypek MS, Simison M, Weng S, Wong ED. Saccharomyces Genome Database: the genomics resource of budding yeast. Nucleic Acids Res. 2012 Jan;40(Database issue):D700-5. PMCID: PMC3245034
48. 	Okada H, Uezu A, Mason FM, Soderblom EJ, Moseley MA, Soderling SH. SH3 domain-based phototrapping in living cells reveals Rho family GAP signaling complexes. Sci Signal. 2011 Nov 29;4(201):rs13. PMCID: PMC3553496
49. 	Uezu A, Okada H, Murakoshi H, del Vescovo CD, Yasuda R, Diviani D, Soderling SH. Modified SH2 domain to phototrap and identify phosphotyrosine proteins from subcellular sites within cells. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2012 Oct 23;109(43):E2929-38. PMCID: PMC3491470
50. 	Braat S, Kooy RF. The GABAA receptor as a therapeutic target for neurodevelopmental disorders. Neuron. 2015 Jun 3;86(5):1119-1130. PMID: 26050032
51. 	Niturad CE, Lev D, Kalscheuer VM, Charzewska A, Schubert J, Lerman-Sagie T, Kroes HY, Oegema R, Traverso M, Specchio N, Lassota M, Chelly J, Bennett-Back O, Carmi N, Koffler-Brill T, Iacomino M, Trivisano M, Capovilla G, Striano P, Nawara M, Rzonca S, Fischer U, Bienek M, Jensen C, Hu H, Thiele H, Altmüller J, Krause R, May P, Becker F, EuroEPINOMICS Consortium, Balling R, Biskup S, Haas SA, Nürnberg P, van Gassen KLI, Lerche H, Zara F, Maljevic S, Leshinsky-Silver E. Rare GABRA3 variants are associated with epileptic seizures, encephalopathy and dysmorphic features. Brain. 2017 Nov 1;140(11):2879-2894. PMID: 29053855
52. 	Dibbens LM, Harkin LA, Richards M, Hodgson BL, Clarke AL, Petrou S, Scheffer IE, Berkovic SF, Mulley JC. The role of neuronal GABA(A) receptor subunit mutations in idiopathic generalized epilepsies. Neurosci Lett. 2009 Apr 10;453(3):162-165. PMID: 19429026
53. 	Wang J, Lin Z-J, Liu L, Xu H-Q, Shi Y-W, Yi Y-H, He N, Liao W-P. Epilepsy-associated genes. Seizure. 2017 Jan;44:11-20. PMID: 28007376
54. 	Prasad DKV, Shaheen U, Satyanarayana U, Prabha TS, Jyothy A, Munshi A. Association of GABRA6 1519 T>C (rs3219151) and Synapsin II (rs37733634) gene polymorphisms with the development of idiopathic generalized epilepsy. Epilepsy Res. 2014 Oct;108(8):1267-1273. PMID: 25088614
55. 	Bromfield EB, Cavazos JE, Sirven JI. Neuropharmacology of Antiepileptic Drugs - An Introduction to Epilepsy - NCBI Bookshelf. 2006; 
56. 	Obenaus A, Esclapez M, Houser CR. Loss of glutamate decarboxylase mRNA-containing neurons in the rat dentate gyrus following pilocarpine-induced seizures. J Neurosci. 1993 Oct;13(10):4470-4485. PMID: 8410199
57. 	Houser CR, Esclapez M. Vulnerability and plasticity of the GABA system in the pilocarpine model of spontaneous recurrent seizures. Epilepsy Res. 1996 Dec;26(1):207-218. PMID: 8985701
58. 	Sloviter RS. Decreased hippocampal inhibition and a selective loss of interneurons in experimental epilepsy. Science. 1987 Jan 2;235(4784):73-76. PMID: 2879352
59. 	Morin F, Beaulieu C, Lacaille JC. Selective loss of GABA neurons in area CA1 of the rat hippocampus after intraventricular kainate. Epilepsy Res. 1998 Nov;32(3):363-369. PMID: 9839776
60. 	De Lanerolle NC, Kim JH, Robbins RJ, Spencer DD. Hippocampal interneuron loss and plasticity in human temporal lobe epilepsy. Brain Res. 1989 Aug 28;495(2):387-395. PMID: 2569920
61. 	Robbins RJ, Brines ML, Kim JH, Adrian T, de Lanerolle N, Welsh S, Spencer DD. A selective loss of somatostatin in the hippocampus of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. Ann Neurol. 1991 Mar;29(3):325-332. PMID: 1675046
62. 	Mathern GW, Babb TL, Pretorius JK, Leite JP. Reactive synaptogenesis and neuron densities for neuropeptide Y, somatostatin, and glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactivity in the epileptogenic human fascia dentata. J Neurosci. 1995 May;15(5 Pt 2):3990-4004. PMID: 7751960
63. 	Cossart R, Dinocourt C, Hirsch JC, Merchan-Perez A, De Felipe J, Ben-Ari Y, Esclapez M, Bernard C. Dendritic but not somatic GABAergic inhibition is decreased in experimental epilepsy. Nat Neurosci. 2001 Jan;4(1):52-62. PMID: 11135645
64. 	Gibbs JW, Shumate MD, Coulter DA. Differential epilepsy-associated alterations in postsynaptic GABA(A) receptor function in dentate granule and CA1 neurons. J Neurophysiol. 1997 Apr;77(4):1924-1938. PMID: 9114245
65. 	Hirsch JC, Agassandian C, Merchán-Pérez A, Ben-Ari Y, DeFelipe J, Esclapez M, Bernard C. Deficit of quantal release of GABA in experimental models of temporal lobe epilepsy. Nat Neurosci. 1999 Jun;2(6):499-500. PMID: 10448211
66. 	Schossig A, Wolf NI, Fischer C, Fischer M, Stocker G, Pabinger S, Dander A, Steiner B, Tönz O, Kotzot D, Haberlandt E, Amberger A, Burwinkel B, Wimmer K, Fauth C, Grond-Ginsbach C, Koch MJ, Deichmann A, von Kalle C, Bartram CR, Kohlschütter A, Trajanoski Z, Zschocke J. Mutations in ROGDI Cause Kohlschütter-Tönz Syndrome. Am J Hum Genet. 2012 Apr 6;90(4):701-707. PMCID: PMC3322220
67. 	Morscher RJ, Rauscher C, Sperl W, Rittinger O. Seizures, enamel defects and psychomotor developmental delay: The first patient with Kohlschütter-Tönz syndrome caused by a ROGDI-gene deletion. Seizure. 2017 Aug;50:118-120. PMID: 28651123
68. 	Kim M, Jang D, Yoo E, Oh Y, Sonn JY, Lee J, Ki Y, Son HJ, Hwang O, Lee C, Lim C, Choe J. Rogdi Defines GABAergic Control of a Wake-promoting Dopaminergic Pathway to Sustain Sleep in Drosophila. Sci Rep. 2017 Sep 12;7(1):11368. PMCID: PMC5595912
69. 	Madisen L, Zwingman TA, Sunkin SM, Oh SW, Zariwala HA, Gu H, Ng LL, Palmiter RD, Hawrylycz MJ, Jones AR, Lein ES, Zeng H. A robust and high-throughput Cre reporting and characterization system for the whole mouse brain. Nat Neurosci. 2010 Jan;13(1):133-140. PMCID: PMC2840225
70. 	Taniguchi H, He M, Wu P, Kim S, Paik R, Sugino K, Kvitsiani D, Fu Y, Lu J, Lin Y, Miyoshi G, Shima Y, Fishell G, Nelson SB, Huang ZJ. A resource of Cre driver lines for genetic targeting of GABAergic neurons in cerebral cortex. Neuron. 2011 Sep 22;71(6):995-1013. PMCID: PMC3779648
71. 	Dimidschstein J, Chen Q, Tremblay R, Rogers SL, Saldi G-A, Guo L, Xu Q, Liu R, Lu C, Chu J, Grimley JS, Krostag A-R, Kaykas A, Avery MC, Rashid MS, Baek M, Jacob AL, Smith GB, Wilson DE, Kosche G, Kruglikov I, Rusielewicz T, Kotak VC, Mowery TM, Anderson SA, Callaway EM, Dasen JS, Fitzpatrick D, Fossati V, Long MA, Noggle S, Reynolds JH, Sanes DH, Rudy B, Feng G, Fishell G. A viral strategy for targeting and manipulating interneurons across vertebrate species. Nat Neurosci. 2016 Oct 31;19(12):1743-1749. PMCID: PMC5348112
72. 	Egashira Y, Takase M, Takamori S. Monitoring of vacuolar-type H+ ATPase-mediated proton influx into synaptic vesicles. J Neurosci. 2015 Feb 25;35(8):3701-3710. PMID: 25716867
73. 	Gasnier B. The loading of neurotransmitters into synaptic vesicles. Biochimie. 2000 Apr;82(4):327-337. PMID: 10865121
74. 	Rost BR, Schneider F, Grauel MK, Wozny C, Bentz C, Blessing A, Rosenmund T, Jentsch TJ, Schmitz D, Hegemann P, Rosenmund C. Optogenetic acidification of synaptic vesicles and lysosomes. Nat Neurosci. 2015 Dec;18(12):1845-1852. PMCID: PMC4869830
75. 	Puranam RS, He XP, Yao L, Le T, Jang W, Rehder CW, Lewis DV, McNamara JO. Disruption of Fgf13 causes synaptic excitatory-inhibitory imbalance and genetic epilepsy and febrile seizures plus. J Neurosci. 2015 Jun 10;35(23):8866-8881. PMCID: PMC4461691
 76.   In vivo proximity proteomics of nascent synapses reveals a novel regulator of cytoskeleton-mediated synaptic maturation. Erin F. Spence, Shataakshi Dube, Akiyoshi Uezu, Margaret Locke, Erik J. Soderblom, and Scott H. Soderling. Nature Communications, In-publication 2018.

